---
permalink: /guilds/
title: Guilds
---
_THIS SECTION IS IN DRAFT pending review and ratification by 18F guild
leadership and the Working Group Working Group._

At 18F, Grouplets are classified into two types:

A **Guild** is a cross-functional/horizontal team working on a topic of great
interest or benefit to the team writ large. They should have [milestones and
goals they are working toward and to which they hold each other
accountable]({{site.baseurl}}/processes-and-artifacts/#okrs). Guild leads are
accountable for hitting those milestones.

A **Working Group** is an ad hoc group that spins up or down depending on
current needs to solve a problem, work through a question, or collectively
think on something. 

Operationally, guilds and working groups should function very similarly. The
advice throughout this guide applies equally to both types of grouplet.

## Formation

Guilds can come into existence via one of two avenues: Leadership can request
that a team member lead a particular guild; or a self-organized working group
can petition leadership to acquire guild status.

## Sponsorship and Accountability

All guilds will have a sponsor on the leadership team. The sponsor is not
responsible for setting the objectives for a guild, but will check in to
ensure a guild is setting objectives and holding itself accountable.

Guild sponsors will convene one meeting each quarter to evaluate guild
progress. Based on the outcome of this meeting, the sponsor may recommend
spinning down a guild or revoke sponsorship altogether. If a guild has its
sponsorship revoked, it may continue to operate as a working group, but will
no longer receive mentorship and advocacy from a sponsor.

## Privileges and Responsibilities

Sponsorship implies that guilds have a voice in discussions amongst the 18F
leadership team. This in turn implies that guilds may more easily influence
the objectives of the broader team than working groups. The price of this
representation is a responsibility for setting and meeting objectives that are
in service to organizational priorities.
