pages/tldr.md, before:

---
permalink: /tldr/
title: Summary
---
_Work in Progress - Please Edit_

A high-level view of how 18F working groups are launched and paused.

These are proposed workflows for 18F but can be readily adapted for use by other teams.  

## Birth Process for Working Groups 
* Anyone on the 18F can launch a working group at any time.  
* It is recommended to first ask for feedback on the idea in #general, #teamops, #wg-working_groups, or a related channel in the 18F Slack.  
* The minimum components for a working group are a slack channel (starting with 'wg-') and a google document for notes and collaboration.  
* Identify a mission, objectives, and projects.  
* Weigh quantifiable or qualitative measurements.  
* At any one point, there should be at least one (ideally two) organizers.   
* Each working group should post a general description of the group's purpose in the slack channel description and set 1 or more initial goals.  Goals can be added or updated at any time and removed with done or it is decided that they are no longer goals.

Memorialize in https://github.com/18F/data-private/tree/master/working_groups with:  

* leads
* mission
* key results 
* projects
* status
* slack-channel

## Pausing Working Groups
* When a working group no longer has objectives or is not regularly meeting or using their slack channel, any member can propose pausing the working groups efforts.   
* If there is not strong resistance to the idea or a renewal in activity, the working group should be willing to change its status to 'paused'.  This should be done by changing the working group's status from 'active' to 'paused' in https://github.com/18F/data-private/tree/master/working_groups, and by requesting in #slack-admins that the group's slack channel be archived.  

## Re-Activating a Working Group
* Anyone can join a paused working group and re-activate it if they feel that there are new objectives and sufficient interest from the team to pursue them.  
* This can be done by requesting the re-activation of the working group's slack channel in #slack-admins and changing the working group's status from 'paused' to 'active' in https://github.com/18F/data-private/tree/master/working_groups.

Commit message:

Add draft of Guilds section

pages/tldr.md, after:

---
permalink: /tldr/
title: Summary
---
_Work in Progress - Please Edit_

A high-level view of how 18F working groups are launched and paused.

The advice here and throughout this guide applies to both guilds and working
groups. See the _Guilds_ topic for information on how guilds differ from
working groups.

These are proposed workflows for 18F but can be readily adapted for use by other teams.  

## Birth Process for Working Groups 
* Anyone on the 18F can launch a working group at any time.  
* It is recommended to first ask for feedback on the idea in #general, #teamops, #wg-working_groups, or a related channel in the 18F Slack.  
* The minimum components for a working group are a slack channel (starting with 'wg-') and a google document for notes and collaboration.  
* Identify a mission, objectives, and projects.  
* Weigh quantifiable or qualitative measurements.  
* At any one point, there should be at least one (ideally two) organizers.   
* Each working group should post a general description of the group's purpose in the slack channel description and set 1 or more initial goals.  Goals can be added or updated at any time and removed with done or it is decided that they are no longer goals.

Memorialize in https://github.com/18F/data-private/tree/master/working_groups with:  

* leads
* mission
* key results 
* projects
* status
* slack-channel

## Pausing Working Groups
* When a working group no longer has objectives or is not regularly meeting or using their slack channel, any member can propose pausing the working groups efforts.   
* If there is not strong resistance to the idea or a renewal in activity, the working group should be willing to change its status to 'paused'.  This should be done by changing the working group's status from 'active' to 'paused' in https://github.com/18F/data-private/tree/master/working_groups, and by requesting in #slack-admins that the group's slack channel be archived.  

## Re-Activating a Working Group
* Anyone can join a paused working group and re-activate it if they feel that there are new objectives and sufficient interest from the team to pursue them.  
* This can be done by requesting the re-activation of the working group's slack channel in #slack-admins and changing the working group's status from 'paused' to 'active' in https://github.com/18F/data-private/tree/master/working_groups.
